The President:
This weekend, millions of
our fellow Americans are still
picking up the pieces from
one of the worst storms in
our history.
I toured New Jersey on Wednesday
with Governor Christie,
and witnessed some of the
terrible devastation firsthand.
It's heartbreaking.
Families have lost loved ones.
Entire communities
have been wiped away.
Even some of the first
responders who repeatedly put
themselves in harm's way to
bravely save the lives of others
have suffered
losses of their own.
Today, I ask everyone to
keep them in your prayers.
And as President, I promise them
this: your country will be there
for you for as long as it
takes to recover and rebuild.
Throughout the week, I've
been in constant contact with
governors and mayors
in the affected areas,
who are doing an excellent
job in extraordinarily
difficult circumstances.
And we owe the first responders
and National Guardsmen who have
been working around the
clock our deepest gratitude.
Our number one concern has been
making sure that affected states
and communities have everything
they need to respond to and
recover from this storm.
From the earliest hours, I
ordered that resources be made
available to states in the path
of the storm as soon as they
needed them.
And I instructed my team not to
let red tape and bureaucracy get
in the way of
solving problems --
especially when it came to
making sure local utilities
could restore power as
quickly as possible.
Before the storm hit, FEMA
pre-staged emergency response
teams from North
Carolina to Maine,
and deployed resources
like food, water,
and generators up
and down the coast.
As the storm passed, thousands
of FEMA personnel were on the
ground responding
to those in need.
And by midweek, the Department
of Defense was ready to fly in
cargo planes that could be
loaded with trucks and equipment
to help local power companies
get up and running faster.
But recovery will
still be a long,
hard road for many communities.
There's a lot of work ahead.
If you've been directly impacted
by this storm and need temporary
assistance getting
back on your feet,
you can call 1-800-621-FEMA,
1-800-621-FEMA,
or apply at DisasterAssistance.gov.
If you know folks who
are still without power,
please spread the word
and let them know.
And if you don't live in an
affected area and want to help,
supporting the Red Cross is
the best and fastest way.
This week, we've been humbled
by nature's destructive power.
But we've been inspired as well.
For when the storm was darkest,
the heroism of our fellow
citizens shone brightest.
The nurses and doctors at NYU
Medical Center who evacuated
fragile newborns, carrying some
down several flights of stairs.
The firefighters in Queens who
battled an inferno from flooded
streets, and rescued people from
an apartment building by boat.
The Coast Guard crews from North
Carolina who saved a sinking
ship in stormy seas -- and
their rescue swimmer who,
when he reached those in need,
said, "I'm Dan, and I hear you
"guys need a ride."
That's who we are.
We're Americans.
When times are
tough, we're tougher.
We put others first.
We go that extra mile.
We open our hearts and
our homes to one another,
as one American family.
We recover, we rebuild,
we come back stronger --
and together we will
do that once more.
Thanks, God bless you,
and God bless America.